***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:java is a programming language

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:A jdk is composed of a JRE- java runtime environment a java compiler and the JVM - the java virtual machine which
enables a computer to run java programs as well as programs written in other languages that are compiled to java byte code.


What is an IDE?
Answer:Integrated development environment it is the interface that we use to code and it is independent from the language

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:some of the most popular IDEs are visual studios, eclipse , intelli j, jetbrains suite and pycharm

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:when you run the file the jvm compiles your code and turns it from human readable to machine readable or from a .java file to a .class file
or byte code it then goes into the jvm where it enters a class loader then onto a bytecode verifier and then o=into an interpreter
which is responsible for offloading the bytecode into a local machine to be interpreted.

What is a class?
Answer:a class is a blueprint and they are compromised of two things which are states and behaviors.

What is an object?
Answer:an object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data it has a state and behavior , an object is created from templates known
as classes

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer:the main method is the entry point

Why is the main() static?
Answer:the main is always static so that the compiler can call it without the creation of an object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:the object class is the super class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:the path points to the location of the jre and the classpath points to the classes you develop so that the jvm can find them and
load them when you run your product.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:an interface only allows you to define functionality and not implement it. and a class can extend only one abstract class.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class (interface is not even considered as a class.)

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:A Java access modifier specifies which classes can access a given class and its fields, constructors and methods.
Access modifiers can be specified separately for a class, its constructors, fields and methods.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object-Oriented Programming System (OOPs) is a programming concept that works on the principles of abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
It allows users to create objects they want and create methods to handle those objects.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default. It provides the fundamental classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program. The important classes are Object,
which is the root of the class hierarchy, and Class, instances of which represent classes at run time.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of functions that allows applications to
access data and interact with external software components, operating systems, or microservices.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:Java supports multiple inheritance through interfaces only. A class can implement any number of interfaces but can extend only one class.
Multiple inheritance is not supported because it leads to deadly diamond problem

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters. Must have at least two methods by the same name in the class. Must have a different number of parameters.
 If the number of parameters is the same, then it must have different types of parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block, and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks.
This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. Basically,
static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:What is the Final Keyword in Java? Java final keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method. If we initialize a variable with the final keyword,
then we cannot modify its value. If we declare a method as final, then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:The basic difference between final, finally and finalize is that the final is an access modifier, finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is the method of object class. ... finalize is the method in Java which
is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created. ... A constructor doesn't have a return type. The name of the constructor
must be the same as the name of the class. Unlike methods, constructors are not considered members of a class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:default constructor

What is the "this" keyword in java and when do we use it?
answer:The "this" keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor. The most common use of the this keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and
parameters with the same name (because a class attribute is shadowed by a method or constructor parameter).

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate
parent class method. super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:yes

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run, whereas JVM is an environment for executing bytecode. The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit, while the full
form of JRE is Java Runtime Environment, while the full form of JVM is Java Virtual Machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:The JVM is the process that runs the Java code, and the JRE are all files distributed to form the "environment" in which the JVM runs.
 JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes (on either a physical or virtual computer). Programmers use the term static to refer to anything that is
 created during compile time and stays fixed during the program run.

What is heap?
Answer:Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no
 longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management. Java does memory management automatically.
 Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable. ... StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. It means two threads can't call the methods
 of StringBuffer simultaneously. StringBuilder is non-synchronized i.e. not thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a
class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:The difference lies in the place where the condition is tested. The while loop tests the condition before executing any of the statements within the while loop whereas the do-while loop
tests the condition after the statements have been executed within the loop.

What is Enum?
Answer:. An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables).

What is Iterator?
Answer:An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.
To use an Iterator, you must import it from the java. util package.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:the int calls from actual memory  the integer is an actual

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading. The reason of making string final is to destroy the immutability and to not allow others to extend it.
 The String objects are cached in the String pool, and it makes the String immutable.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object. ... Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class.
From base class: by using super() keyword to call constructor from the base class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation,
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What does JIT stand for?
Answer:compiler is a component of the runtime environment that improves the performance of Java
applications by compiling bytecodes to native machine code at run time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:no

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:Java Heap Space is used throughout the application, but Stack is only used for the method — or methods — currently running.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to
 examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer: bodies of prewritten code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:selenium, serenity,junit and testNG

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:testing frameworks available for java

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection  is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside. DI can be implemented in any programming language.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding happens when all information needed to call a function is available at the compile-time.